now Israel says talks with top us
Egyptian and Qatari officials in Paris
on the Gaza War were constructive but
that there were still significant gaps
that remained media reports have been
reporting that the sides were working on
an agreement in which Israel would agree
to a ceasefire in return for the release
of more than 100 hostages joining me now
is defense and Foreign Affairs analyst
na bin Mubarak Alani he has served
earlier as the katari Director of
Defense intelligence operations and as
the defense attache to the US he joins
us now from Doha welcome to to DW we're
hearing about a ceasefire deal in the
making in Paris as we just mentioned uh
do we know more about its
terms well actually uh Nisha the the way
a lot of these uh negotiations happen uh
in the past and the way the qataris have
been dealing with this is through utmost
secrecy keeping it very close to their
vest to ensure a successful outcome and
I don't believe that this will change in
the process that is reportedly happening
now even so we saw over 100 hostages
released the last time around in
November but can we expect all hostages
to be released given that they're being
held as a bargaining chip by
Hamas well that's the point of any
negotiations is to come to a conclusion
of uh you know a positive result in this
case the release of hostages and the
cessation of violence through a
ceasefire and hopefully lasting peace to
help the uh people of Gaza who are
suffering under uh very bad situations
as you've been reporting so that is the
expected end State and again the qataris
as the lead uh negotiators have proven
the effectiveness of this approach in
the past over 100 released unfortunately
the Israeli approach has been less
successful through IDF operations that
have failed and led to the death of
deaths of hostages and obviously
thousands and tens of thousands of
Palestinian civilians you mentioned
Qatari Effectiveness but we do know that
there is a serious trust deficit between
Israel and Qatar and that is required if
we are to reach that long-term ceasefire
that you mentioned doesn't this limit
what doha's negotiators can even pull
off well again that depends on you
mentioned Israel when in this case it
depends on the Israelis the Israelis
have a proven track record of the
qatar's effectiveness in the past
through requests from Israel and from
our partners the United States as well
and recently with the release of
hostages so the proof is in the pudding
they either see the proof and see well
that's an effective thing that it's not
Pie in the Sky it's not theoretical it's
achievable or they can continue in this
Mass military operation that hasn't
achieved even the idf's own stated goals
to this point but I have to ask Israel
has reiterated again and again you
mentioned the idea of stated goals that
they will not stop until Hamas is
eliminated how then is a long-term ceas
fire even possible because that is
clearly not happened
yet well it's is a standing
understanding standing you know um uh
view in all policy and military
operations that there is no military
solution to a political question or a
problem there is only a political uh
solution to a political problem and this
is no different than any other uh the
region is not ready for another Forever
War it's already spilling over to other
regions just as we came on air you saw
the reports on the Jordanian border uh
of uh Americans being attacked there
this is very worrying and if it grows
even further than this then it will
engulf not only the Middle East but it
will involve the Europeans and the
Americans as
well defense analyst na M Alani in Doha
thank you so much for your
analysis